When you need to focus
on building, do you want
to get bogged down by
your database? Mongo DB is
an intuitive, flexible document database
that lets you get to
building Mongo. DBS document model
is a natural way to
represent data so you can
focus on what matters. Mongo
DB Atlas is the best
way to use Mongo DB.
It's a global cloud database
service that gives you all
of the developer productivity of
Mongo DB. Plus the added
simplicity of a fully managed
database service. You can get
started free with Mongo DB
atlas@mongodb.com slash Atlas. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And today I'm talking with
you, Bailey is the author
and maintainer of OBS studio
on the ops project. How
are you? Great. How about
you? Ah, you know, I'm
enjoying my pandemic as pandemics
go. It's a, it's a
good one. I would guess
I am. We are safe.
Hopefully your folks are safe
as well. Yeah. I'm just,
you know, staying at home,
you know, I never really
go outside anyway. So a
lot of people are saying,
yeah, I guess my lifestyle
is called pandemic. Yeah. Yeah.
I'm pretty much I've. I,
I just never really went
outside that much, so it
didn't really change much for
me. Well, hopefully that'll work
out well. So you are
the original author and maintainer
of open broadcaster software, the
OBS project now OBS studio.
Is it true? The rumor
or the legend is that
you just wanted something that
you could like, you know,
stream a game with? Like,
was it like star StarCraft,
stark? He just went like,
yeah, I have StarCraft two
on a stream. StarCraft two,
I guess before I play
StarCraft, I will write a
complete cross-platform streaming and recording
platform. Well, it wasn't cross-platform
at first, the first than
the first version was just
windows on and it was,
it was pretty terrible, but
it worked pretty well despite
being written pretty terribly. I
didn't know what I was
doing. So I was just
like kind of winging it,
I suppose. Not even to
this day, I'm still winging
it sometimes, but, but back
then I was really winging
it and just wanted to
do everything myself. You know,
I wanted to figure out
everything myself. I wanted to
do all like the color
conversions myself and do all
the encoding myself and just
figure everything out because it
was fun. And you know,
I always loved to write
my own tools. You know,
I was just that sort
of programmer who would love
to write and write his
own stuff. It does feel
like, like this is just
kind of me making I'm
I'm anthropomorphizing the software. It
feels like it's a series
of Lego pieces. Like it
feels like it was written
with the, Oh, this, this
can be a plugin and
this can be a, an
add on, and this can
be a plugin. Like you
were playing with Legos where
the Legos were codex. Yeah,
pretty much. I mean, I
designed at least a, this
version to be modular to
where you can just like
install any everything's basically everything's
a plugin based. So everything's
modular, you know, and you
can install additional plugins and
get plugins from our forums
and, you know, extend the
program and things like that.
So let's up level and
explain to folks who don't
know what OBS is, right?
This is a streaming and
recording program. It's, it's kind
of a complete television studio
on your computer. Yeah, pretty
much. It's like, I suppose
the most accurate way is
to say a desktop. It's
not even just desktop people
use it to capture more
than those thoughts, but it's
a capturing recording streaming program
and it's the, yeah. It's
like live capturing and reporting
streaming programs and yeah, people
use it for pretty much
anything when it comes to,
you know, needing to capture
like even like say your
webcam or your desktop or
a video game. It was
primarily written for video games.
Cause I wanted to stream
video games, but, but it
ended up, ended up being
so much more and I
had to keep adding to
it and adding to it
and based upon a user
feedback, you know, because people
wanted more and more and
then just program just kind
of blew up from there.
Yeah. One of the things
that I think is the
most powerful that I think
people are really starting to
come to terms with is
it's concept of scene composition.
This is the thing it's
a real time source device
capture. It's a recording studio.
It's a broadcasting studio, but
it's, it's so thoughtful in
the way that it allows
you to compose scenes. And
when I explain it to
people like you need to
make a scene and you
need to compose that scene.
That's the first big concept
that they don't get. I'll
I'll introduce it to someone
they'll go, Oh, it's Camtasia.
I was like, well, no,
it's not really. Oh, well
what is it? It's just
a router. Well, no, let's
talk about your scene. Once
we get them past that
mental block of composing a
scene, you kind of see
them click in and they
go, Oh my goodness. I
could do this. I can
do this. I can do
that. Yeah. It's yeah. I,
I didn't really know what
I was doing at the
time. So I just designed
it, you know, based upon
my best guess of like
how I would make a
composition program if I were
to do something like this.
And so I came up
with the scene where it
was like, based upon scenes
and sources, you'd have like
a bunch of sources and
you'd put them into a
scene and then you could
create another scene and then
you could switch between those
scenes. And it would like
fade between those scenes. And
it was a, it's a
pretty simple concept. And one
that I feel like most
people understand pretty clearly. Once,
once, once it clicks, it's
like, Oh yeah, that's pretty
simple. Yeah, Exactly. Once it
clicks, it's like, wait a
second. And then I can
have collections of scenes. And
then you're often you're off
and running. And the, even
now as I've been using
it for quite a while,
I am still and thinking
about new sources. And I
think that's one of the
other exciting things about OBS
is that, you know, you,
you, you, you install it,
you put your webcam up
there, you put maybe a
Kyron or a little thing
at the bottom that says
your name. And then, you
know, if, if MSNBC ever
calls you you're ready to
go because you're like, yeah,
I'm ready to put my
name at the bottom. That's
cool. And then recently I
discovered this thing called obs.ninja.
Have you played with that?
I haven't Not played with
it, but I've heard of
it. I don't actually remember
what it's all about. Well,
so one of the things
that I've been doing and
other people in my community
have been doing are running,
are running our conferences, non
OBS now, right with COVID
OBS is having a moment.
And then we'll talk about
that. And what obs.ninja does
is it basically is a
website you go to, it
uses JavaScript and various JavaScript
API is to capture your,
your video and your audio.
And then we just go
into OBS and add a
browser source. And this allows
me to have someone give
me their video, give me
their audio, give me their
shared desktop and they'll have
to install anything. It's just
a lovely open source add
on that means no one
has to Skype in or
teams in or zoom in.
They just use a browser
source, which is amazing. Wow.
Yeah. That is amazing. Yeah.
It's, it's just like a,
I was telling you, I
made it modular and people
started creating all these cool
ad-ons and things like that.
And the I'm really proud
of like everything that the
community has made. Just so
many amazing people. I feel
like, I feel like the
thing I'm most proud of,
isn't really so much the
software, but the community that's
built around it, it's just
absolutely wonderful community. What is
something that someone made for
OBS that surprised you? And
you were like, Oh, I
did not see that coming.
Hmm. That's a good question.
You know, what's an add
in or a plugin that
is like technologically Epic and
you're like, Oh, that's I
should've thought about that. That's
a genius plugin idea. Well,
I, I'm not sure if
I've ever like thought of
like any particular bug. And
I was like, Oh, that's
a genius plug in idea.
I wish I had gone
to that, but I have
seen some crazy plugins that
have surprised me, like a
facial recognition, plugins, you know,
like face mask plugins, where
you would have like a
stuff pop up over your
face and things like that.
And people have done just
so many amazing things with
the program that it just
blows my mind and people
use it for so many
things that I just never
really expect like that. And
it's like the, like the
example you were talking about,
that's kind of like an
example. It sort of blows
my mind. It's just, it's
amazing that I just go
back to what I was
saying about the community. The
community is just an absolutely
wonderful community and they've just
made it into something greater
than the sum of its
whole. It's really wonderful. Is
that because of the, that
original plan of modularity, when
you got, when you, when
you started, when you then
have other contributors get involved,
is there a, a manifesto
or this, we believe as
the, as the, as the
team, the OBS project says,
okay, we're going to do
a new feature. Let's make
sure that this is extensible.
No, I wouldn't. I wouldn't
necessarily say that we have
like any sort of manifesto
or anything to answer your
first question about like, whether
I intended for this stuff
to happen with, like it
being modular and yeah. I
mean, to some extent, yeah.
I don't think I had
some of these ideas in
mind, like the examples that
you're stating, but in general,
the, I made it open
source to allow this sort
of stuff. And that was,
I think the biggest blessing,
just being open source and
having so many wonderful people
come into the program and
contribute so many wonderful things
like that. But for your
second question about whether we
have like a manifestor or
anything. No, no, I, I
really don't ever have I
kind of being honest with
you, I'm kind of winging
it sometimes. I'm just like
each patch. I'll be like,
okay, well, what do we
work on next? And it's
just like complete blank slate
sometimes. Yeah. I just it's,
it can be kind of
hard because I don't really,
it's kind of hard for
me to be able to
like have this longterm plan
sometimes because things are constantly
changing. Like the whole COVID
situation. It forced me to
write like a virtual camera
plugin or, or at least
integrate the existing virtual camera
plugin into the program. And
so I basically had to
stop what I was thinking
about or going to do.
And I, I just decided
to write that. So that'll
be something in the next
version version 26, but yeah,
we don't really have any
sort of manifesto. It's just
like, we're just kind of
operating at the edge of
our seats here. It's kind
of funny. Well, to, to,
to your credit though, I
think there is an implied
manifesto in it is one
of stability. I have been
running it for months. I
couldn't tell you the last
time I restarted it. And
that's one of the things
that I think is worth
calling out to your, your
credit and the team's credit.
I'm curious, there doesn't appear
to be any major leaks.
You're pushing 30 frames a
second on my computer for
the last several weeks, without
any trouble, without any hiccups.
It is, it is to
its credit that it is
such a stable thing. That
must not be luck. Well,
I mean, for the stability,
I'm pretty anal about having
good code, you know, that
there would be people who
would argue with you on
point, because there are some
people who I'm sure that
there are things you can
do that would hurt it.
But for the most part,
it is well thought of
for its stability. And I
have found it to be
rock solid. I do. The
program is extremely multithreaded internally
and it's, it was very,
it was very challenging to
get it to this point.
There's, there's been so many
times, I can't even begin
to tell you where we've
had like thread locks and
things like that, and just
hard locks, you know, and
it's, and it's just, you
have to be really, really
careful with it. And the
I'm very, very anal and
very selective about the code
that goes into the project.
If anybody's making like this
big pull request, I'll just
be like sweating bullets over
it. And you know, it
just makes me nervous every
single time because, you know,
it's like, you know, eventually,
you know, I'm going to
miss something and something's going
to break, you know, that's
happens quite frequently, but, and
also we don't have automated
testing what we've just added
automated testing, just minor automated
testing. But we, for that
entire duration that you're talking
about, we haven't had automated
testing. So yeah, every time
we make a release, it's
a very nerve wracking experience
because we have to constantly
release a couple hotfixes. Inevitably,
after that know, we did
eventually, you know, start having
like a beta process just
to supplement it. But yeah,
it's kind of inevitable when
you don't have it Automated
testing, but I guess the
fear of regressions would be
a challenging one. Yeah. Just,
you just gotta be super
paranoid about it, I guess.
Is there internally, I assume
that there's a, there's a
pipeline of sorts that you
run filters and all of
the different things as a
internal compositor, but you want
to keep the work that
you're doing internally down to
as few milliseconds as possible.
And my team and I,
as we also integrate this
ourselves internally at Microsoft with,
with Microsoft teams and stuff
like that. So like I
run all of my, my
meetings on zoom or teams
or whatever through this, I'll
occasionally have to move some
audio and whatnot and millisecond
here and there. What causes
those millisecond hiccups and, and
how do you keep those
things synchronized? Well, what do
you mean by If I
run things, if like, if
NDI gets involved in all,
then it's like, Oh shoot,
I've added some latency. Or
if I had a bunch
of filters, I'm sure that
I'm adding some millisecond or
two as a, as an
audio filter or a video
filter does some thing. And
I've always wondered, how do
you keep my mouth bliss
linked up with the audio?
It's really difficult. It's, it's
a, yeah, that goes down
to the sub system. Pretty
much. It all comes down
to the timestamp of each
audio segment in each video
frame. So if you have
like a video frame, it
has like a specific timestamp
associated. If you have an
audio for him or a
set of audio friends, you
have a timestamp associate associated
with that. And then basically
the audio subs, they have
to sync it up to
like they have to use
those numbers and they have
to insert it. The audio
has to be inserted like
at a specific, a specific
frame to be able to
make sure that it matches
up the video. It's like,
it operates from the assumption
that the video is always
correct and not the audio
needs to adjust based upon
the audio timestamps. So the
audio timestamp, we'll see, you
know, what the video is
currently on and it will
basically automatically adjust the audio
segment and it will put
it into the circular buffer,
place it into the circular
buffer at the specific point.
It's not, it's not actually
like placing at the end
of the circular bumper places,
like at a specific point
it's, it's, it's really complicated,
but it's it's yeah. It's,
it's basically just timestamps. Interesting.
So when you flow things
in and out of windows
or any system that the
timestamps come along is this
metadata that's plugged in. I
didn't realize that it was
creating Yeah. Anything that you
have that's being input into
ops usually has a timestamp
associated within whether it be
video or audio. Like if
exempt, for example, if you're
capturing, if you add like
an audio source, let's say
you go into audio settings
and you say, you want
to capture desktop audio. And
that desktop audio will come
in with a timestamp associated
with it, each audio segment.
Hmm. And that is at
high enough resolution that timestamp,
like they don't have different
flavors of timestamps. They have
enough resolution in the, in
the audio that you can
make frame level decisions on.
Well, I mean, there are
some sources that have like
different types of, or different
forms of timestamp. Like for
example, the desktop audio is
captured in a hundred nanosecond
timestamps and the OBS itself
operates at nanosecond. And so
you have to adjust that
to nanosecond, you know, and
things like that. And the
other sources may operate on
some other value and you
have to convert that the
nanosecond before you use it.
And you know, things like
that, Hey friends, you know
how I love great podcasts.
And I want you to
check out the code newbie
podcasts, all about stories from
folks on their coding journey.
They talk to new developers,
experienced developers and everyone in
between about how they got
started learning to code how
they navigate their technical careers.
And they also do deep
dives into technical topics in
a newbie friendly way, check
out their podcast at www
dot code newbie that's any
w B I e.org/podcast. That's
code newbie.org/podcast. When you started
this, you said it was
windows only, and then you
went cross platform. How, how
nightmarish was that? You know,
how many nightmares you went
from calling wind 32 directly
to deciding which shared objects
you needed to call on
Linux and what was the
associated. Yeah, Yeah, yeah. I
did it for, I did
it pretty much for fun
and because I just wanted
to get more developers involved
in the project because you
know, there are a whole
bunch of Linux developers out
there who are just so
talented, you know, that I've,
I've come to see and
even Mac developers, although Mac
has been kind of on
the low side in terms
of support, but I'm, that's
another story, but yeah, it's,
it's been a nightmare. I'd
say that Mac has been
like the most troublesome operating
system to work with. Because
pretty much if you're writing
a native application for a
Mac iOS specifically, Apple will
basically deprecate things like, and
you won't be able to
use them anymore. And they'll,
they deprecate things so fast
and so aggressively. And in
comparison to like say Microsoft,
who will let things fly
for like 20 years, Apple
will like kill things off
after like two or three
years, if they really want
to. And they just have
no like, discretion about it.
It's like, okay, we're doing
this now. Everybody's going to
have to get used to
it. And it's like, Oh,
everybody's like unison. I'm like,
Oh, that's like Painful to
hear. Cause you know, my
day job, I work at
Microsoft and I'm like, VisiCalc
runs on windows still because
you know, if we removed
it, someone would email, I
don't know, bill Gates or
Satya and say you broke
physical. All right, I'll put
that API back. But like
Mac, I have a Mac
mini and like one day
I just stopped getting support
and it's like, it's dead.
It's on snow leopard. Yeah.
It's a, they don't care
yet. I'm not going to
say they don't care. They're
just very aggressive, very aggressive.
You know? And the next
thing that we have to
deal with is a there's
two, two new things that
we have to deal with.
They're deprecating open GL, which
basically kills our entire graphics
subsystem. And then they're going
to switch to arm, you
know, which is, you know,
I got a dev kit
for that, but Hey, yeah.
That's not going to be
fun. I was going to
say, when you said earlier
that I switched, you said
I went to a cross
platform for fun, strange idea
of fun. I think I'll
go to arm for fun.
This will be fun. Great.
This is fine. Well, it's
interesting because I've never really
programmed on the arm before.
I've always been 86 programmers.
So it's going to be
an interesting new experience. Even
if it is a pain,
you know, they're like pain
is like a, another side
of a coin and or
one side of the coin
and the other side is
pleasure. So, you know, it's
like, yeah, you could look
at it though. What is
the thing about pain? Is
weakness leaving the body? I
don't know if that applies
to arm ports, but I'll
be very excited to talk
to you in a couple
of years or months whenever
you get it moving onto,
onto arm. Yeah. I'm pretty
sure we'll be able to
get it pretty soon. I'm
pretty sure that I could
probably just that the only
real problem is just converting
our intrinsics and any assemblies
stuff, but that's pretty much
it, there isn't too much
of that. So I feel
like there shouldn't be too
much of a problem. So
it feels like the last
three or four months as
we opened, we talked about
kind of how the world
has changed. OBS was doing
great. I mean, with the
rise of, of game streaming
with the twitches and the
mixers and the whatnot's of
the world OBS was doing
well. And then out of
nowhere, covert happened. And I
went from being an OBS
user user to being an
OBS studio teacher. And now
I'm constantly every day setting
up another new person with
it. Did you have any
idea that this would become
the, the powerhouse that it
is for video conferencing and
remote work? I did not.
And it's kind of blows
my mind. You know, when
I first wrote the program,
people had been asking me
for to write like a
virtual camera and I was
like, no, I don't want
to work with direct show
anymore because I already wrote
like the direct show input,
you know, where you can
take input from devices, you
know, it's how you capture
like your webcams and stuff
like that on a windows
and direct show is a
serious pain. I haven't had
to do way too much
programming and direct show and
it's just extremely unpleasant. So
I've always avoided it. You
know, I've said somebody else
can do it. And eventually
somebody else did a, another
contributor wrote his own plugin
for it. It ended up
being really popular and now
it's like incredibly popular. And
so me and the guys,
the other guys on the
project, the core guys on
the project decided, you know,
we've really got to have
this integrated in the project.
And I was just like,
Okay. And I ended up
having to write it and
you know, I, I took
the code and I like
tried to adapt it, you
know, and things like that.
So yeah, if we're going
to have a virtual camera
in the next version, so
integrated directly into the program,
so you won't have to
necessarily download like a third
party plugin just to be
able to use it as
a, in your conferencing software.
But yeah, it was, it
was a bit unexpected, especially
with how many users started
using an after COVID it
was just blew my mind.
Like we had like three
times the amount of users
that we've had before. And
it's just like so many,
so many users per day.
And just, it's just astounding.
How do you know that,
that, do you have a
kind of telemetry or how
do you know that these,
that the public is suddenly
burst? Did you see the
download numbers and you go,
Oh my goodness. Where do
you see the questions on
the forums? We have an
auto updater in the program
that pings our, our server
whenever the program starts up.
So we basically get a
ping and that's pretty much
it all, whenever the program
starts up. So we have
a pretty good idea of
how many people are using
the program per day. Wow.
And then just to kind
of like over the course
of a couple of months,
it went, it kind of
effectively went viral. Yeah. It
just skyrocketed. It was just
crazy. I couldn't believe it.
Yeah. I wrote an article
about how to set up
the virtual cam and then
how to set up the,
the NDI tools. Do you
have a relationship with that
company or how that works?
Cause they don't, they're not
open source. They're a whole
thing. Oh, you mean the
people, you mean new tech
is one of your techs.
Pardon me? NewTek makes NBI
tools. Yeah. Yeah. I've definitely
communicated with them a few
times. I've, it's, it's kind
of hard. We don't distribute
it with our program because
they're a proprietary tool and
right. Yeah. So we, I
don't want to take responsibility
for distributing any sort of
anything that requires dependence upon
proprietary software like that. And
so I've been just kind
of keeping hands-off now there
is a, there is a
plugin that somebody wrote to
make NDI work, but I'm
just in terms of like
a licensed compatibility, it's kind
of in a gray area.
Right. And so I just
kind of keep hands off
on that one. I would
w I really wish that
I can have NDI directly
integrated into the program. I'm
just a little bit hesitant
at the moment until like,
I can get like a
affirm, go ahead from like
a legal counsel or something
like that. Oh, right, right.
Right. I know that like
Skype for desktop has like
the end. They redistribute that
NDI, TX dot DLL, and
that's kind of where it
all happens and it is
kind of a gray area,
but what's what I'm hearing
you say is that in
the next version a is
a twenties version, 26 of
OBS you'll have that virtual
cam built in and that's
going to be basically make
it, so you download it
and it works right out
of the box for folks
that have that webcam knee.
Yeah. Yeah. Just to be
more specific. It's the virtual
camera is basically, as it
sounds, it's, you're able to
use OBS as a camera
with another program, so you
can select, so when you
select your webcam and like
any other program, you'll be
able to go like Microsoft
teams, for example, you can
go down and you'll see
OBS camera, and you can
just select it and it'll
just get automatically get the
OBS output for you. And
as speaking as a user
for folks that may not
have played with this before,
what's great about this is
a, I have now three
webcams, including one that points
at my desk. So if
I'm doing hardware, demonstrations, or
I want to point down
to my soldering iron, I
can just push a little
button and switch my scene.
And then I'm suddenly looking
at another, but I didn't
have to change anything in
the app. So zoom teams,
Skype, whatever it is that
you're doing, you get this
lovely transition. And once you've
started doing transitions in scenes,
you're going to be hooked
and you'll be an OBS
user for life. Yeah. It's,
it's a lot of fun
and it's a very customizable,
yeah. There's a whole different
bunch of transitions you can
choose from. And it's just
gotten a whole bunch of
fancy little features and things
like that. And so many
awesome features like that, that
are contributed by the, that
are contributed by the other
contributors. And it's, it's, it's,
it's wonderful. I love the
program and I love the
community. One of the plugins
that I think has amazed
me the most, just for
you to like hear from
a user, what we appreciate
about the community is a
web socket server, because I
can't leave the house and
my, my producer can't leave
the house. So I set
up a stream deck so
I can push a button.
A stream deck is just
a little big old pile
of buttons and I can
push them. And I said,
you know, I really wish
someone else could push these
buttons. Cause if I'm interviewing
someone, I don't want to
do that. So he goes
to a website and we're
both on the same sub-net
and he now has virtual
buttons and he's in Seattle
and I'm in Portland and
I can record a whole
show and he'll hit buttons
on his side, changing scenes
in OBS. And it's completely
changed our production workflow because
we really don't have to
do any more editing. Yeah.
It's like I said, Hey,
just goes back to the
beginning of our conversation. Like
people just making these wonderful
ad-ons and things like that.
It's, it's funny. The stream
deck is another one I
was gonna mention. It's crazy
that companies are making hardware
that basically integrates with the
software and controls it. You
know, it's like, it just
blows my mind that, you
know, that there's like this
ecosystem around my program, you
know, I just never would
have thought that this sort
of thing would have ever
happened. You know, it's not
just like the, the open
source community, but it's like
companies and things like that.
And it just blows my
mind. And speaking of the
web, the web socket and
the NDI plugins, those are
made by a wonderful contributor
called . I just wanted
to shout them out because
he is absolutely wonderful person,
wonderful, wonderful developer. And those
plugins are pretty much the
top plugins for the project.
That is really very thoughtful
For you to do that.
Politeness of course, is Stefan
Levine from France, an active
member of the community all
over the forums, always being
helpful and helping to move
things, move things forward. It's
interesting, you know, there's lots
of plugins, but there is
also a long tail of
plugins, right? There's the top
kind of five or six
essentials. And then there's all
this other diverse bunch of
plugins to, to choose from.
I'm curious how you feel
about the ecosystem in that
you've profit companies, new tech
stream deck building on top
of this thing, but you
haven't chosen to kind of
cash in on, on OBS.
You have a Patrion, you
have an open collective people
can support you and your
community, but you didn't take
a giant check. Well, When
it comes to open source
software, it's, it's complicated. And
it's like, I want to
take that giant check. I
would love to take that
giant check. I'd be like,
yeah, I would love to
give you a giant check.
He hasn't given me the
money, But if they do
it and it's within the
guidelines, you know, within the
licensed guidelines, then, you know,
it's, it's within the clear
pretty much. So if somebody
makes an awesome plugin or
if a company makes an
awesome tool for the program,
you know, and you know,
if they're making profit off
of it, then in my
humble opinion, more power to
them, I would love for
them to, I would love
for all those companies, you
know, to become sponsors of
the project. Cause you know,
they're definitely benefiting off of
the programs development, but we're
not necessarily forcing anybody. We
definitely, we do get big
sponsors. As you know, we
have a Twitch and Facebook
as two big sponsors right
now, hopefully more in the
future. And you know, I,
we're always looking for more
sponsors and we would absolutely
love to have them. And
we would love to be
able to have more developers
or full time developers on
the project. I plan to
hire one extra full time
developer on the project relatively
soon, I'm waiting for him
to get out of college,
but I would definitely love
to have more people who
are able to do it
full time and be able
to dedicate, or at least
dedicate more of their time
to the project. And so
we're always looking for that
and I understand that that
things are complicated and you
know, I'm not going to
hold it against anybody. You
know, if, if they don't,
you know, necessarily sponsor, but
we would definitely hire, it
would be highly encouraged because
if anybody's making a profit
off of, you know, the
program existing, then hopefully, you
know, they can mutually give
back and hopefully we can
continue to repeat that cycle
so we can help them
to continue having more success.
If we have success, then
we can help them to
have more success. So it's
definitely mutually beneficial for everybody
involved to do that. Yeah.
And I really want the,
for the folks that are
listening as we get towards
the end of our podcast
here, if you have used
OBS, if your organization is
using it, if you're spending
time in it every day,
if it has become an
indispensable part of your workflow,
I would encourage you to
go to opencollective.com/obs project. And
just scroll down to the
part that says contributors. And
you'll see the big ones,
you'll see the logic techs
and the front end masters
and the experts that are
giving, you know, tens of
thousands of dollars. But I
also want to point you
out to folks that are
giving a couple of hundred
bucks because they are individual
users and humans that have
had their lives changed. I
see a contribution, someone to
give a thousand dollars because
your team is allowing them
to live stream events or
their church or their local
community center live streaming things.
And they didn't know it
was possible and they didn't
have to pay so they
are paying, but they're paying
you and your team and
supporting your software. So I
do want to tell you
that I appreciate you coming
on the show. And I
hope that everyone who listens,
who either uses OBS gives
you some money at your,
at your open collective and
folks. Who've just heard about
it. Now on this show,
you get involved in this
just wonderful community or a
Patrion, or, you know, we
also have PayPal. We have
you take direct paid file.
I like that. Or if
you're a really big sponsor,
we can work something else
out. That's what we usually
try to do so we
can avoid any unnecessary fees
and things like that. That's
a really great point. So
I'm going to put links
to the Patrion, the open
collective and the PayPal all
in the show notes. And
I would encourage you to
get the word out. Thank
you so much. You Bailey
for chatting with me today.
Sure. Thank you so much.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .